

--- Página 1 (OCR) ---

2/19/2026 Bibiana Castro Torres

Powered by P eightfold.ai

Bibiana Castro Torres

Data Management Engineer OnPrem ETL Jr
Mexico

M% bibiana.castroQOsofttek.com

(O 20años de experiencia total

E Software Developer, Softtek Citi 2022-2026 (3 años)
Data Management Engineer OnPremETL Jr, Softtek 2021-2022 (2 años)
Specialist, Comision Nacional Bancaria y de Valores 2003-2013 (10 años)
Developer Sr, Infotec 2002-2003 (9 meses)
Project Leader, Kiven Sc 1999-2002 (3 años)
Systems Analyst, Provial Servicios Juridicos 1998-1999 (1 año)
Systems and Support Analyst, APRA Servicios Juridicos 1997-1998 (9 meses)

E  Informatica PowerCenter, ETL, Data Integration, Microsoft SQL Server Integration Services, Microsoft
SharePoint Designer, Ab Initio, Process Integration

Empleado Actual

Resumen

Data specialist with 14+ year of experience, analyzing and designing data financial reports.

Strong skills for following own projects, able to analyze business rules to create/design documentation.
Experience in data analysis, development, reporting, performance optimization and tunning in excel.
Experienced interfacing with clients/users to gather business requirements and preparation for systems
requirements specifications, design documentation as per Data integration.

Analysis of business processes to develop the systemrequirements, design and functional specifications.
Relevant 6 years of experience as developer on ETL solutions (Data Stage, IPC, SSIS, Ab Initio) under the best
practices and methodologies also | have participated in data quality projects.

Relevant skills in technical and data architecture - creation of conceptual, logical and physical data modeling -
dimensional OLAP and relational OLTP models.

Perfil resumen


--- Página 2 (OCR) ---

2/19/2026 Bibiana Castro Torres

Experiencia

Software Developer
Softtek-CITI

dic 2022 - ene 2026 (3 años, 2 meses)

INSURANCE

- As L3 member, development, correction and/or modification of ETL's (Ablnitio) to solve issues in DWH. - User
Support.- Generate documentation according to Banamex requirements. - Use of Udeploy, Service Now,
Autosys, Tectia SSH Terminal, Tectia SFT, Linux, Jenkins, RLM, Teradata, Oracle SQL applications for
documentation generation and implementation of updates in testing and production environment.

BANK

- Development and Documentation of ETL's (Abinitio) to extract and generate reports for the division of the
institution. - Identify and apply business rules for data integration processes, as wellas generate
documentation according to CITI requirements. - User Support for the new developments. - Development of
test cases and participation in QA to Production deployments - Use of Linux, Oracle SQL, Udeploy, Jira,
Artifactory, Bitbucket, Service Now applications for documentation generation and implementation of updates
in testing and production environment.

Data Management Engineer OnPrem ETL Jr
Softtek

jun 2021 - dic 2022 (1 año, 7 meses)

Softtek NMP Mexico City IPC DEveloper From: Jun, 2021 To: Oct, 2022

Description:

Responsible for the Analysis, Design, Development and Documentation of ETL's to extract and generate
reports and financial

indicators for Nacional Monte de Piedad.

Identify and apply business rules for data integration processes.

Generate documentation according to requirements and Agile Methodology.

Integrations in Informatica Power Center and SSIS.

Development of test cases and participation in QA to Production deployments.

Data validation against reporting in OBIEE.

Integration of APIs with JSON format.

Tools/Skills:

Agile, Cit, ETL (Extract/Transform/Load) , Functional Testing, Informatica Power Center, Microsoft SQL Server,
Microsoft SQL Server

Integration Services (SSIS), Oracle SQL Developer


--- Página 3 (OCR) ---

2/19/2026 Bibiana Castro Torres

Specialist
Comision Nacional Bancaria Y De Valores
jul 2003 - ene 2013 (9 años, 7 meses)

Responsible for the Data Analysis of databases to extract and generate reports of statistics, financial indicators
and compliance with liquidity and capital requirements to the regulations applicable to the sectors under the
supervision of the CNBV. Complex financial macros for the development, implementation and monthly updating
of reports and statistical bulletins for the CNBV generated with Excel (Information Portfolio) | used IPC to
generate more sophisticated reports with the information extracted fromthe Database Identify and apply
business rules for data integration processes, as well as generate documentation according to requirements
and CNBV Methodology. Administration, training and maintenance of internal website for the Analysisand Risk
area Development and implementation of technical support website and quality survey website for the same
area Support users by phone, chat, remote user, video conferencing, etc. Training courses for users on
developed tools (Information portfolio)

Developer Sr
Infotec

INFOTEC OCt 2002 - jun 2003 (9 meses)

Development of tools in VBA (complex Excel macros) for the analysis of information on statistics, financial
indicators and compliance with liquidity and capital requirements to the regulations applicable to the sectors
under the supervision of the CNBV Development of Web applications for the CNBV (Intranet, Portal and
internal applications).

Project Leader
Kiven SC
feb 1999 - abr 2002 (3 años, 3 meses)

Development and leadership of web applications for CNBV: — Development of deployments and mappings
in BizTalkfor bcentral (Tiendas Garcés, Banamex, Gigante, Cifra, etc.).- Intranet development and
implementation with SherePoint for Microsoft Mexico- Development and implementation of the search
engine for Seccionamarilla.com.mx- — Website of Aulaclick.com and PEMEX Gas y Petroquimica Básica with
Newsbuilder.- Helpdeskfor ISOSA (SHCP)..- HP Latin America Intranet for the advertising area.-

Website publishing.- — Analysis, design and maintenance of databases.- Preparation of manuals for all
developed applications focused on different types of user (administrator, end user, etc.), as well as installation
and configuration manuals: — Technical support for the use and installation of developed and related
applications (Windows 2000, IIS, SQL, Site Server).Achievements:- Improve and streamline internal and
external communication of companies such as Microsoft, CNBV, Pemex Gas, HP Latin America and SHCP with
the implementation of the intranet and websites- Help users with technical support for the use of
developed applications- Improve the consultation of information with the use of web tools.


--- Página 4 (OCR) ---

2/19/2026 Bibiana Castro Torres

Systems Analyst
Provial Servicios Juridicos

ene 1998 - ene 1999 (1 año, 1 mes)

Development of the production module of SystemlIntegrOsys 2.2.. . System Development AprOosys 2.0-

Analysis and maintenance of databases.

Systems and Support Analyst
APRA Servicios Juridicos

may 1997 - ene 1998 (9 meses)

Analysis of databases to obtain statistics.- Registration of claims in SystemIntegrOoSys.-

of Billing-Training and advice to general staff and the IntegrOsys parcel system.

Educación

Computer Systems Engineering
[11y[k yXe Universidad Tecnologica de Mexico
unitec.mx may 1994to dic 1999

postgraduate in Telecommunications

Insignias

Realization

HBeCollaborative - Given by Rodrigo Rivas Miranda on diciembre 04, 2025 at 12:26 am

eres una persona que siempre esta disponible para apoyar a todo en equipo cuanto se

necesita y sabes la respuesta,gracias!!

Habilidades


--- Página 5 (OCR) ---

2/19/2026

Bibiana Castro Torres

Agile — ASPClassic CH | ETL (Extract/Transform/Load) — Functional Testing * HTML

Informatica Power Center | Microsoft SQL (T-Sgl) | Microsoft SQL Server

Microsoft SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) — Microstrategy 10 MSBiztalk Server  MS Excel

MS IS Server — MS Project | MS SharePoint Designer + MS Visual Basic 3 * MS Visual Basic for Applications

MS Visual Interdev  MySQL ' Oracle SQL Developer | Softskill - Leadership — Softskill-Negotiation Skills

Softskill - Teamwork |  Vbscript

Intranet Portal — Excel Macros

Softskill - Planning é: Organization — VBA — Informatica PowerCenter

External Communication - | Microsoft SharePoint

Oracle Business Intelligence Enterprise Edition » Performance Optimization — DataValidation ' Negotiation

Application Security — Macro Language | Systems Development | Business Rules

SQL Server Integration Services
Computer Systems » Consulting

Microsoft Excel

Información Personal

8% bibiana.castroQOsofttek.com
bibiana.castroQicloud.com

Data Quality Framework | Data Integration  Windows 2000

Agile Methodologies | Microsoft Project * Systems Engineering


--- Página 6 (OCR) ---

Softtek

PROFILE

Bibiana Castro Torres

3+ years of experience as developer in Data Integration solutions (Informatica Power Center and SSIS) under best practices and Agile
methodology.

10+ years of experience in the financial sector as data analyst.

10+ years of experience in data analysis, development, reporting, performance optimization and tuning in Excel.

10+ years of experience in interacting with customers/users to collect business requirements and preparation of system requirements
specifications, design document according to data integration.

Also participated in data quality projects.

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

Softtek - NMP Mexico City - IPC DEveloper From: Jun, 2021 To: Oct, 2022
Description:

« Responsible for the Analysis, Design, Development and Documentation of ETL's to extract and generate reports and financial
indicators for Nacional Monte de Piedad.

Identify and apply business rules for data integration processes.

Generate documentation according to requirements and Agile Methodology.

Integrations in Informatica Power Center and SSIS.

Development of test cases and participation in QA to Production deployments.

Data validation against reporting in OBIEE.

Integration of APIs with JSON format.

Tools/Skills:

Agile, CH, ETL (Extract/Transform/Load) , Functional Testing, Informatica Power Center, Microsoft SQL Server, Microsoft SQL Server
Integration Services (SSIS), Oracie SQL Developer

Comision Nacional Bancaria y de Valore Mexico City - Specialist From: Jul, 2003 To: Jan, 2013

Description:

* Responsible for the Data Analysis of databases to extract and generate reports of statistics, financial indicators and compliance with
liquidity and capital requirements to the regulations applicable to the sectors under the supervision of the CNBV.

e Complex financial macros for the development, implementation and monthly updating of reports and statistical bulletins for the CNBV
generated with Excel (Information Portfolio)

* lused IPC to generate more sophisticated reports with the information extracted from the Database

e Identify and apply business rules for data integration processes, as well as generate documentation according to requirements and

CNBV Methodology.

Administration, training and maintenance of internal website for the Analysisand Risk area

Development and implementation of technical support website and quality survey website for the same area

Support users by phone, chat, remote user, video conferencing, etc.

Training courses for users on developed tools (Information portfolio)

Tools/Skills:

ETL (Extract/Transform/Load) , HTML, ASP Classic, Informatica Power Center, Microstrategy 10, MS Excel, MS Visual Basic For Applications,
MySQL

Infotec Mexico City - Developer Sr From: Oct, 2002 To: Jun, 2003
Description:
« Development of tools in VBA (complex Excel macros) for the analysis of information on statistics, financial indicators and compliance

With liquidity and capital requirements to the regulations applicable to the sectors under the supervision of the CNBV
« Development of Web applications for the CNBV (Intranet, Portal and internal applications).


--- Página 7 (OCR) ---

Tools/Skills:

MS Visual Basic For Applications, ASP Classic, MS Excel, HTML

Kiven SC Mexico City - Project Leader From: Feb, 1999 To: Apr, 2002
Description:

Development and leadership of web applications for CNBV

Development of deployments and mappings in BizTalk for bcentral (Tiendas Garcés, Banamex, Gigante, Cifra, etc.).

Intranet development and implementation with SherePoint for Microsoft Mexico

Development and implementation of the search engine for Seccionamarilla.com.mx

Website of Aulaclick.com and PEMEX Gas y Petroquimica Básica with Newsbuilder.

Helpdesk for ISOSA (SHCP).

HP Latin America Intranet for the advertising area.

Website publishing.

Analysis, design and maintenance of databases.
- Preparation of manuals for all developed applications focused on different types of user (administrator, end user, etc.), as well as
installation and configuration manuals

Technical support for the use and installation of developed and related applications (Windows 2000, IIS, SQL, Site Server).
Achievements:

Improve and streamline internal and external communication of companies such as Microsoft, CNBV, Pemex Gas, HP Latin America and
SHCP with the implementation of the intranet and websites

Help users with technical support for the use of developed applications

Improve the consultation of information with the use of web tools.

Tools/Skills:

ASP Classic, HTML, MS IIS Server, MS SharePoint Designer, MS Excel, MS Visual Basic For Applications, MS Biztalk Server, MS Project, MS
Visual InterDev, MySQL, SoftSkill - Leadership, SoftSkill - Negotiation skills, SoftSkill - Planning 8% Organization, SoftSkill - Teamwork, VBScript

Provial Servicios Juridicos Mexico City - Systems Analyst From: Jan, 1998 To: Jan, 1999
Description:

Development of the production module of System IntegrOsys 2.2.
System Development AprOsys 2.0
Analysis and maintenance of databases.

Tools/Skills:

MS Visual Basic 3, Microsoft SQL (T-SQL)

APRA Servicios Juridicos Mexico City - Systems and Support From: May, 1997 To: Jan, 1998
Analyst

Description:

Analysis of databases to obtain statistics.
Registration of claims in System Integr eSys.
Realization of Billing.
Training and advice to general staff and the Integr(Osys parcel system.

Tools/Skills:
MS Excel, MS Visual Basic 3, Microsoft SQL (T-SQL)
EDUCATION

UNIVERSIDAD TECNOLOGICA DE MEXICO Mexico City From: May, 1994 To: Dec, 1999
Computer Systems Engineering

postgraduate in Telecommunications

PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT

Course: Application Security 2022 Softtek University Oct, 2022
Course: Introduction to the Operation Softtek University Aug, 2022
Course: Six Sigma White Belt Softtek University Jul, 2022

Course: Google Platform Principles Softtek University Jul, 2022


--- Página 8 (OCR) ---

Course: Getting Started with AWS
Course: PDSS Agile

Course: Agile SSDP Scrum Fundamentals
Course: Agile SSDP The Agile Concept
Course: Integrity

Course: PDSSV3

Course: Financial culture

Course: MicroStrategy Analysis Mode
Course: Balance-Structural Risk

Course: Basic Course in Data Mining

LANGUAGES

English

TECHNICAL/MANAGERIAL SKILLS

VBScript

SoftSkill - Teamwork

SoftSkill - Planning € Organization
SoftSkill - Negotiation skills
SoftSkill - Leadership

Oracle SQL Developer

MySQL

MS Visual InterDev

MS Visual Basic For Applications
MS Visual Basic 3

MS SharePoint Designer

MS Project

MS IIS Server

MS Excel

MS Biztalk Server

Microstrategy 10

Microsoft SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS)
Microsoft SQL Server

Microsoft SQL (T-SQL)
Informatica Power Center
HTML

Functional Testing

ETL (Extract/Transform/Load)
C

ASP Classic

Agile

Self Evaluated

Softtek University
Softtek University
Softtek University
Softtek University
Softtek University
Softtek University
Psicorenacimiento
Caprinet
DeráRisk
Universidad Anahuac

Jul, 2022
May, 2022
Jan, 2022
Jan, 2022
Nov, 2021
Aug, 2021
Jan, 2010
Jun, 2009
Apr, 2008
Sep, 2007

Lower Intermediate 31-50%

Senior
Senior
Senior
Senior
Senior
Junior
Senior
Senior
Senior
Proficient
Proficient
Senior
Senior
Senior
Junior
Junior
Junior
Proficient
Proficient
Proficient
Proficient
Proficient
Proficient
Junior
Senior

Junior
